---
layout: post
title: Build
categories: docs docs-get-started
permalink: build.html
---

**Warning**: Compiling PhantomJS from source takes a long time, mainly due to thousands of files in the WebKit module. With 4 parallel compile jobs on a modern machine, the entire process takes roughly 30 minutes. It is highly recommended to download and install the ready-made [binary package]({{ site.url }}/download.html) if it is available.

**System Requirements**: Approximately 4 GB of RAM and 3 GB of disk is required for the compilation process.

**Note**: If the compilation process is interrupted, once started again the `build.py` script will continue where left off.

## Mac OS X

Install [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and the necessary SDK for development (gcc, various tools, libraries, etc).
You also need to install OpenSSL via [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) or via [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/)

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules git://github.com/ariya/phantomjs.git
cd phantomjs
./build.py --qt-config "-I /usr/local/include/ -L /usr/local/lib/"
```

This produces a statically built `bin/phantomjs`. This is a self-contained executable, it can be moved to a different directory or another machine.

## Linux

First, install the development packages of the following tools and libraries: GNU C++ compiler, bison, flex, gperf, Perl, Ruby, SQLite, FreeType, FontConfig, OpenSSL, and ICU. The actual package names may vary from one distribution to another.

On Debian-based distro (tested on Ubuntu 14.04 and Debian 7.0), run:

```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential g++ flex bison gperf ruby perl \
  libsqlite3-dev libfontconfig1-dev libicu-dev libfreetype6 libssl-dev \
  libpng-dev libjpeg-dev python libx11-dev libxext-dev
```

**Note**: It is recommend also to install `ttf-mscorefonts-installer` package.

On Fedora-based distro (tested on CentOS 6), run:

```bash
sudo yum -y install gcc gcc-c++ make flex bison gperf ruby \
  openssl-devel freetype-devel fontconfig-devel libicu-devel sqlite-devel \
  libpng-devel libjpeg-devel
```

Then, launch the build:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules git://github.com/ariya/phantomjs.git
cd phantomjs
./build.py
```

**Note**: `build.py` by default will launch parallel compile jobs depending on the available CPU cores, e.g. 4 jobs on a modern hyperthreaded dual-core processor. If necessary, e.g. when building on a virtual machine/server or other limited environment, reduce the jobs by passing a number, e.g `./build.py --jobs 1` to set only one compile job at a time.

This produces a build `bin/phantomjs`. This is an executable; it can be moved to a different directory (e.g. /usr/local/bin) or another machine.

## Windows

**Note**: Supported toolchains: `MSVC2012` and `MSVC2013`.

**Note**: You must have Perl, Python, Ruby, and Git on PATH. Also, note that Git comes with it's own version of perl.exe. If you have both Git and a separate perl installation in your PATH, please make sure that you separate perl install bin folder comes before the git bin folder in your PATH variable.

Use Visual Studio Command Prompt, run in the top directory. The results will go into `bin`:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules git://github.com/ariya/phantomjs.git
cd phantomjs
build.py
```

**Note**: Enabling incremental linking will make the linkage process faster.

This produces a static build `bin/phantomjs.exe`. This is a self-contained executable, it can be moved to a different directory or another machine.
