---
layout: post
title: Releases
categories: docs docs-get-started
permalink: releases.html
---

[PhantomJS 2.1](release-2.1.html) was released on January 23, 2016. It came with an updated WebKit library based on Qt 5.5.

[PhantomJS 2.0](release-2.0.html) was released on January 23, 2015. This is a major release since the core was switched to use Qt 5 to get a more modern base platform, as well as to have an updated WebKit module.

[PhantomJS 1.9](release-1.9.html) "Sakura", was released on March 20, 2013. It came with an updated GhostDriver, an improved resource loading control, as well as other incremental improvements.

[PhantomJS 1.8](release-1.8.html) "Blue Winter Rose", was released on December 21, 2012. It integrated GhostDriver, a remote WebDriver (Wire Protocol) implementation, and many related API addition.

[PhantomJS 1.7](release-1.7.html) "Blazing Star", was released on September 22, 2012. It added module system support (modelled after CommonJS), better cookies handling, and other small improvements.

[PhantomJS 1.6](release-1.6.html) "Lavender" was released on June 20, 2012. It is a minor update with some improvements on the rendering and script evaluation, as well as various bug fixes.

[PhantomJS 1.5](release-1.5.html) "Ghost Flower" was released on March 20, 2012. It added pure headless (no X11) for the Linux version, improved troubleshooting with interactive mode and remote debugger, and a new system module.

[PhantomJS 1.4](release-1.4.html) "Glory of the Snow" was released on December 22, 2011. It is a minor update, mostly bug fixes and one new major feature: WebServer module.

[PhantomJS 1.3](release-1.3.html) "Water Lily" was released on September 23, 2011. It added preliminary module syntax, file system support, mouse events, and other page-related improvements.

[PhantomJS 1.2](release-1.2.html) "Birds of Paradise" was released on June 21, 2011. It implemented an abstraction for web page object, added support for rasterization and network traffic monitoring.

[PhantomJS 1.1](release-1.1.html) "Cherry Blossom" was released on April 27, 2011. It added supports for file upload, network proxy, disk cache, GIF output. In addition, scripts can now be written in CoffeeScript.
